index.md, before:

# `xplainfi`

The goal of `xplainfi` is to collect common feature importance methods
under a unified and extensible interface.

It is built around [mlr3](https://mlr-org.com/) as available
abstractions for learners, tasks, measures, etc. greatly simplify the
implementation of importance measures.

## Installation

You can install the development version of `xplainfi` like using `pak`:

``` r
# install.packages(pak)
pak::pak("mlr-org/xplainfi")
```

## Example: PFI

Here is a basic example on how to calculate PFI for a given learner and
task, using repeated cross-validation as resampling strategy and
computing PFI within each resampling 10 times on the `friedman1` task
(see
[`?mlbench::mlbench.friedman1`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/mlbench/man/mlbench.friedman1.html)).

The `friedman1` task has the following structure:

\\y = 10 \sin(\pi x_1 x_2) + 20(x_3 - 0.5)^2 + 10x_4 + 5x_5 +
\varepsilon\\

Where \\x\_{1,2,3,4,5}\\ are named `important1` through `important5` in
the `Task`, with additional numbered `unimportant` features without
effect on \\y\\.

``` r
library(xplainfi)
library(mlr3learners)
#> Loading required package: mlr3

task = tgen("friedman1")$generate(1000)
learner = lrn("regr.ranger", num.trees = 100)
measure = msr("regr.mse")

pfi = PFI$new(
    task = task,
    learner = learner,
    measure = measure,
    resampling = rsmp("cv", folds = 3),
    n_repeats = 10
)
```

Compute and print PFI scores:

``` r
pfi$compute()
pfi$importance()
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature  importance
#>           <char>       <num>
#>  1:   important1  8.26830487
#>  2:   important2  7.56661552
#>  3:   important3  1.54377613
#>  4:   important4 12.60915426
#>  5:   important5  2.71382429
#>  6: unimportant1  0.02113506
#>  7: unimportant2 -0.01250122
#>  8: unimportant3 -0.04414584
#>  9: unimportant4 -0.05157362
#> 10: unimportant5  0.04819212
```

If it aides interpretation, importances can also be calculates as the
*ratio* rather then the *difference* between the baseline and
post-permutation losses:

``` r
pfi$importance(relation = "ratio")
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature importance
#>           <char>      <num>
#>  1:   important1  2.7167932
#>  2:   important2  2.5798917
#>  3:   important3  1.3234729
#>  4:   important4  3.6334554
#>  5:   important5  1.5680305
#>  6: unimportant1  1.0047822
#>  7: unimportant2  0.9972307
#>  8: unimportant3  0.9907595
#>  9: unimportant4  0.9890062
#> 10: unimportant5  1.0100964
```

When PFI is computed based on resampling with multiple iterations, and /
or multiple permutation iterations, the individual scores can be
retrieved as a `data.table`:

``` r
str(pfi$scores())
#> Classes 'data.table' and 'data.frame':   300 obs. of  6 variables:
#>  $ feature          : chr  "important1" "important1" "important1" "important1" ...
#>  $ iter_rsmp        : int  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
#>  $ iter_repeat      : int  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ...
#>  $ regr.mse_baseline: num  4.56 4.56 4.56 4.56 4.56 ...
#>  $ regr.mse_post    : num  11.4 11.5 12.7 12.9 10.7 ...
#>  $ importance       : num  6.83 6.96 8.15 8.35 6.09 ...
#>  - attr(*, ".internal.selfref")=<externalptr>
```

Where `iter_rsmp` corresponds to the resampling iteration, i.e., 3 for
3-fold cross-validation, and `iter_repeat` corresponds to the
permutation iteration within each resampling iteration, 5 in this case.
While `pfi$importance()` contains the means across all iterations,
`pfi$scores()` allows you to manually visualize or aggregate them in any
way you see fit.

For example:

``` r
library(ggplot2)

ggplot(
    pfi$scores(),
    aes(x = importance, y = reorder(feature, importance))
) +
    geom_boxplot(color = "#f44560", fill = alpha("#f44560", 0.4)) +
    labs(
        title = "Permutation Feature Importance on Friedman1",
        subtitle = "Computed over 3-fold CV with 5 permutations per iteration using Random Forest",
        x = "Importance",
        y = "Feature"
    ) +
    theme_minimal(base_size = 16) +
    theme(
        plot.title.position = "plot",
        panel.grid.major.y = element_blank()
    )
```

![](reference/figures/README-pfi-plot-1.png)

If the measure in question needs to be maximized rather than minimized
(like \\R^2\\), the internal importance calculation takes that into
account via the `$minimize` property of the measure and calculates
importances such that the intuition “performance improvement” -\>
“higher importance score” still holds:

``` r
pfi = PFI$new(
    task = task,
    learner = learner,
    measure = msr("regr.rsq")
)
#> ℹ No <Resampling> provided
#> Using `resampling = rsmp("holdout")` with default `ratio = 0.67`.

pfi$compute()
pfi$importance()
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature    importance
#>           <char>         <num>
#>  1:   important1  0.3538670264
#>  2:   important2  0.3078201501
#>  3:   important3  0.0684752046
#>  4:   important4  0.5509192405
#>  5:   important5  0.1324330936
#>  6: unimportant1 -0.0033190271
#>  7: unimportant2  0.0002369042
#>  8: unimportant3 -0.0020602383
#>  9: unimportant4 -0.0016842988
#> 10: unimportant5 -0.0007178819
```

See
[`vignette("xplainfi")`](https://jemus42.github.io/xplainfi/articles/xplainfi.md)
for more examples.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ mlr-org/xplainfi@7308393c81501652116ab3d36bfc95a8fb573d2d 🚀

index.md, after:

# `xplainfi`

The goal of `xplainfi` is to collect common feature importance methods
under a unified and extensible interface.

It is built around [mlr3](https://mlr-org.com/) as available
abstractions for learners, tasks, measures, etc. greatly simplify the
implementation of importance measures.

## Installation

Once released, you can install `xplainfi` from CRAN:

``` r
install.packages("xplainfi")
```

You can also install `xplainfi` from
[R-universe](https://mlr-org.r-universe.dev):

``` r
install.packages("xplainfi", repos = c("https://mlr-org.r-universe.dev", "https://cloud.r-project.org"))
```

The latest development version of `xplainfi` can be installed with
`pak`:

``` r
# install.packages(pak)
pak::pak("mlr-org/xplainfi")
```

## Example: PFI

Here is a basic example on how to calculate PFI for a given learner and
task, using repeated cross-validation as resampling strategy and
computing PFI within each resampling 10 times on the `friedman1` task
(see
[`?mlbench::mlbench.friedman1`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/mlbench/man/mlbench.friedman1.html)).

The `friedman1` task has the following structure:

\\y = 10 \sin(\pi x_1 x_2) + 20(x_3 - 0.5)^2 + 10x_4 + 5x_5 +
\varepsilon\\

Where \\x\_{1,2,3,4,5}\\ are named `important1` through `important5` in
the `Task`, with additional numbered `unimportant` features without
effect on \\y\\.

``` r
library(xplainfi)
library(mlr3learners)
#> Loading required package: mlr3

task = tgen("friedman1")$generate(1000)
learner = lrn("regr.ranger", num.trees = 100)
measure = msr("regr.mse")

pfi = PFI$new(
    task = task,
    learner = learner,
    measure = measure,
    resampling = rsmp("cv", folds = 3),
    n_repeats = 10
)
```

Compute and print PFI scores:

``` r
pfi$compute()
pfi$importance()
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature  importance
#>           <char>       <num>
#>  1:   important1  8.26830487
#>  2:   important2  7.56661552
#>  3:   important3  1.54377613
#>  4:   important4 12.60915426
#>  5:   important5  2.71382429
#>  6: unimportant1  0.02113506
#>  7: unimportant2 -0.01250122
#>  8: unimportant3 -0.04414584
#>  9: unimportant4 -0.05157362
#> 10: unimportant5  0.04819212
```

If it aids interpretation, importances can also be calculated as the
*ratio* rather than the *difference* between the baseline and
post-permutation losses:

``` r
pfi$importance(relation = "ratio")
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature importance
#>           <char>      <num>
#>  1:   important1  2.7167932
#>  2:   important2  2.5798917
#>  3:   important3  1.3234729
#>  4:   important4  3.6334554
#>  5:   important5  1.5680305
#>  6: unimportant1  1.0047822
#>  7: unimportant2  0.9972307
#>  8: unimportant3  0.9907595
#>  9: unimportant4  0.9890062
#> 10: unimportant5  1.0100964
```

When PFI is computed based on resampling with multiple iterations, and /
or multiple permutation iterations, the individual scores can be
retrieved as a `data.table`:

``` r
str(pfi$scores())
#> Classes 'data.table' and 'data.frame':   300 obs. of  6 variables:
#>  $ feature          : chr  "important1" "important1" "important1" "important1" ...
#>  $ iter_rsmp        : int  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ...
#>  $ iter_repeat      : int  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ...
#>  $ regr.mse_baseline: num  4.56 4.56 4.56 4.56 4.56 ...
#>  $ regr.mse_post    : num  11.4 11.5 12.7 12.9 10.7 ...
#>  $ importance       : num  6.83 6.96 8.15 8.35 6.09 ...
#>  - attr(*, ".internal.selfref")=<externalptr>
```

Where `iter_rsmp` corresponds to the resampling iteration, i.e., 3 for
3-fold cross-validation, and `iter_repeat` corresponds to the
permutation iteration within each resampling iteration, 5 in this case.
While `pfi$importance()` contains the means across all iterations,
`pfi$scores()` allows you to manually visualize or aggregate them in any
way you see fit.

For example:

``` r
library(ggplot2)

ggplot(
    pfi$scores(),
    aes(x = importance, y = reorder(feature, importance))
) +
    geom_boxplot(color = "#f44560", fill = alpha("#f44560", 0.4)) +
    labs(
        title = "Permutation Feature Importance on Friedman1",
        subtitle = "Computed over 3-fold CV with 5 permutations per iteration using Random Forest",
        x = "Importance",
        y = "Feature"
    ) +
    theme_minimal(base_size = 16) +
    theme(
        plot.title.position = "plot",
        panel.grid.major.y = element_blank()
    )
```

![](reference/figures/README-pfi-plot-1.png)

If the measure in question needs to be maximized rather than minimized
(like \\R^2\\), the internal importance calculation takes that into
account via the `$minimize` property of the measure and calculates
importances such that the intuition “performance improvement” -\>
“higher importance score” still holds:

``` r
pfi = PFI$new(
    task = task,
    learner = learner,
    measure = msr("regr.rsq")
)
#> ℹ No <Resampling> provided, using `resampling = rsmp("holdout", ratio = 2/3)`
#>   (test set size: 667)

pfi$compute()
pfi$importance()
#> Key: <feature>
#>          feature    importance
#>           <char>         <num>
#>  1:   important1  0.3538670264
#>  2:   important2  0.3078201501
#>  3:   important3  0.0684752046
#>  4:   important4  0.5509192405
#>  5:   important5  0.1324330936
#>  6: unimportant1 -0.0033190271
#>  7: unimportant2  0.0002369042
#>  8: unimportant3 -0.0020602383
#>  9: unimportant4 -0.0016842988
#> 10: unimportant5 -0.0007178819
```

See
[`vignette("xplainfi")`](https://mlr-org.github.io/xplainfi/articles/xplainfi.md)
for more examples.
